Project Name: Bringing Bus Stops and Pantries Closer
Main Question: Can people get to food pantries by bus?
	People who need 'emergency' food will not always have reliable personal vehicles. Will they be able to get to the food pantries by bus?

	We checked which pantries have bus stops within a mile of their location.

	We also visualized pantry and bus-stop data.

	We emphasize that this analysis does not ask whether there are bus routes from low income areas to pantries.
	This analysis only addresses whether it is possible for someone somewhere to travel to pantries in Wake, Durham, Orange and Johnston counties by bus.
	We can only expect that there are many people who cannot travel to the nearest pantry by bus than these results indicate.

Insights:

	We found that Johnston County does not have bus lines except for limited use by handicapped and elderly. With Johnston County there are 169 pantries but without 
		there are 136 pantries.
	Only 86 pantries are served by buses (defined as having a bus stop within 1 mile), which is about 2/3 of pantries in Wake, Orange, and Durham counties.
	By county, pantry bus coverage is from greatest to least, Durham (95%), Orange (67%), and Wake (49%), with Johnston county having 0% coverage.
	These insights are visualized in associated html files.

	Johnston county has the most room for improvement, but lower cost improvement might be in Wake county where there are existing bus lines that could be extended.

Supporting files:
	bus_stops_pantries.docx: writeup of findings including visuals
	pantries_distances_clean.ipynb: Ipython notebook in which distances are calculated and data aggregated by county
	results.Rmd: R markdown script creating plot of pantries and bus stop locations
	results.html: html output of RMarkdown presentation
	results.pdf: pdf output of RMarkdown presentation
	pantry_bus_availability_by_county.csv: csv output of bus availability by county
	distances_pantries_to_busstops.csv: csv output of distances from each county to each bus stop within one mile 
							(does not include food pantries in Johnston County as it does not have a bus line)	 
	rdsstops.csv: csv output of busstops.rds (so that we could use python rather than R for some analyes)

	--------------------Data Sources-------------------
Files provided at the NC Data4Good Data Crunch:
	busstops.rds: bus stop data from Transloc that we converted to csv and output as rdsstops.csv
	pantries.csv: food pantry data including location

	--------------------Future Work--------------------
Our analyses have been fairly limited in scope: 
	We have merely looked at pantries that have bus stops within less than a mile.
	Future analyses should address whether there are bus routes that travel from low income neighborhoods (e.g. by zip codes identified as low income) 
		to the food pantries in a reasonable amount of time (e.g. < 1 hour).

Contributors:
	Monika Sanghi
	Kip Sutter
	Clara Sutter 
	Rex 
	Alice Broadhead
	Lucia Gjeltema
