Template for ABOUT.txt

- Project name
NC Food Resource Exploration Map

- Main question


- Background (from Data4Good website)
Partnering with the United Way of the Greater Triangle, NC Data4Good is using data to explore questions about food insecurity in Durham, Johnston, Orange and Wake Counties.

- Description of the project
We wanted to provide a tool for organizations to explore the resources available and the demand for food assistance. The map we created will help organizations start to understand what areas have the biggest mismatch and need the most attention.

- Insights
Our maps shows the locations of: schools, feeding sites, churches, convenience stores, grocery stores, farmers markets, food pantries, SNAP retailers and bus stops. The map breaks the counties down by school district and school boundaries for varying levels of granularity. It also provides basic summary statistics for each school including: total number of students, number of students on free or reduced lunch, and a performance measure of the school.


- Description of files included
This is a Shiny App written in R.  The full code can be found in GitHub (below).  The files included are:

places.rda - combined orginal data sources
dist-mat.rda - distances between all the places and all the other places. 
schools.rda -  combined data file including census data and school achievement data.
ui.R - Shiny App user interface.
server.R - Code that create the visualizations and graphs.
tidy.R - Processes raw data to create schools.rda.



- Data sources
Most of the data sources were provided by NCData4Good (http://ncdata4good.github.io/DataCrunch2015/) and include the following:
Export.csv - Farmer's Markets locations
SNAP-NC.csv - SNAP Retailer locations
NCPlaces.csv - Schools, Churches, and Community places and locations
http://nces.ed.gov/surveys/sdds/sabs/ - Schools Boundaries
tl_2015_37_unsd.zip - School District Boundaries Shapefile
busstops.rds - Bus Stop locations

- Future work
We'd like to continue to build this tool as a way to visualize and explore data around hunger.  Some of the features that may be useful to include in future versions of this tool include:
- Expand the scope to include data from across North Carolina
- Include census boundaries as an option in addition to school boundaries and district boundaries

- Contributors
Jordan Meyer - jordan.meyer@rittmanmead.com
Joe Elliott - joe.elliott@joulebug.com
Iain Carmichel - idcarm@live.unc.edu


- Link to source code in Github
or zip files mailed to: ncdata4good@gmail.com


Presentation: - Team 6 
Project name
Main question trying to solve
Insights
Contributors

